so this week i started the journey of mastering japanese

i realize it's a long and arduous journey and there will be lots of pot holes along the way but it seems like it's worth it for the effort. before that i had been drafting aimlessly without a purpose. i feel like this goal does me my current purpose in life which is centered around learning japanese. i have that focus now so it's easier to plan my life around that.

after i told a few friends about my decision and plan, one of them had recommended [WaniKani](https://www.wanikani.com/) to me to learn kanji. i know even before that i needed to learn hiragana and katakana which are the fundamental building blocks to even understand how each word is pronounced.

it's funny i had just been relying on the romanji version of japanese and had never bothered to learn the hiragana and katakana. now they're calling me back to start from scratch the right way.

from the WaniKani website i stumbled upon [Tofugu](https://www.tofugu.com/) which provided free lessons on japanese on their website. i dove deeper into the site to check out what was their origin and found some of their earliest videos on youtube regarding japan and what was the intention of their founder who started it all. i thought it was nice and the videos were funny enough for me to check out a few videos.

anyways, i thought the thing to do was to memorize the characters was to visually memorize it and solidify by writing the same character over and over to in order to build up that muscle. so i did exactly that on the first day starting with all the vowels on the hiragana using [SuperNote](https://supernote.com/) to do the writing. i had planned to use SuperNote to write journal while on my asia trip but it turned out i had totally forgot to bring the pen to write with. so my journal became using [zettlekasten using vim](https://github.com/nvim-telekasten/telekasten.nvim) instead while traveling.

i wasn't have much luck with recalling even the vowels and the `k` consonant row the next day. it turned out that i was completely wrong in my self-thought assumed method. Tofugu actually recommended just straight memorize it using mnemonics while skipping the writing part completely since now hardly anyone writes anymore - everything is just reading and typing. of course, writing is nice to have but it's just a optional thing. i do want to learn how to write though and maybe i will do that along with mnemonics to memorize kanji.

so i just followed their [learn hiragana guide](https://www.tofugu.com/japanese/learn-hiragana/) from the beginning and it worked. i basically was able to recall most of the characters by following the mnemonics they had illustrated. of course, i also picked a few from different illustrations from their [hiragana chart](https://www.tofugu.com/japanese/hiragana-chart/) of various disciples.

it only took a day for me to get to 80% recall and from their was just keeping it up by doing their quizzes throughout the week. what i find interesting is once you add on the diacritics and digraphs which are the variations on top of the original standard characters, it becomes a bit more difficult for the mind to convert the character. i guess that difficulty will fade once i have enough practice so seeing enough of them in the wild and my ability to discern them quickly will be part of the process.

once i got the basics of hiragana down, i added some grammer lessons from [Bunpro](https://bunpro.jp/) which was what chatgpt had recommended to me a while back and i noted down. in each lesson there are some supplemental guides that took me to various rabbit holes that i didn't even finish the first lesson.

through the supplemental guides, i learned another website called imabi which then led me to read their first post on [what is japanese](https://imabi.org/what-is-japanese/) and that gave me an intro crash course on why the way the language is structured. an interesting thing i learned is each character in hiragana came from a character in chinese. i found that interesting and dove deeper into this by asking chatgpt for more. it seems like japan didn't really have a writing system so they took inspirations from buddhism that spread from china to korea and made their own derivations of characters from that. a friend joked that the buddhist monks got lazy so they started writing the characters in a more simple and cursive way to lessen the amount of pen strokes to need to copy the sutras.

it was mid-week did i asked chatgpt to come up with a personalized japanese learning guide for me using the o3 model. what i took away was it told me to really drill down on the hiragana and katakana first as a good basic fundamental and be quick in recalling them as well in the first two weeks. it said something about getting a sub one second recall per character. i thought that's actually pretty hard but took the challenge.

i started to memorize katakana as well by following [this guide](https://www.tofugu.com/japanese/learn-katakana/). it wasn't that bad either especially i've got the hiragana down. it wasn't long before i had them all memorized with 90% recall rate. oh yeah, i've been using the [GoKana game](https://gokana.bunpro.jp/game) from Bunpro to test myself. i've been just doing the basic monographs without the diacritics and digraphs. i feel like adding those two would dramatically reduce my speed but i will need to tackle them eventually. so next week i will do exactly that.

on top of the above, chatgpt recommended that i should read children's books and it even recommended me a site called [alphapolis](https://ehon.alphapolis.co.jp/). i started to browse books for 0-1 age. i find a bit defeated in a way to slowly read each page of a book for essentially a baby to practice hiragana as well as learning simple vocabularies. nevertheless, i do find myself in mini flow state trying to decipher exactly what each character was and put them into a sentence together to sound it out properly. there is something nice about being able to solve that as a puzzle or sorts.

i've been using [this converter](https://nihongoclassroom.com/converter) to both verify what i thought the hiragana was indeed what i had thought as well as fill in the blank of a hiragana i couldn't recall at the moment. it's also interesting depending on the font some hiragana has a bit of variation which gets to me. i think as i pick up more words which is just a connection of hiragana characters i will just identify more with more context and that just becomes second nature.

also something i started doing is to mimick the way the voice actors on anime and imitate what they're saying in some phrases. some are simple while others are more complex. it's interesting i know what they're saying but for my mouth to sound it out it becomes way harder.

finally, at night i've been listening and practicing speaking using the Michel Thomas course on japanese. it goes over basic conversational japanese like one would use on a daily basis like getting food, drinks, etc in a grammatically correct way. it seems like the way for the course is to forget about any writing or reading and go completely base on sounding it out and remembering those phrases through vocal practices.

i had a conversation with chatgpt about this and i found out that it seems we need to use twice amount the brain power to come up with what we are trying to communiate by finding the right words as well as putting those words in structure that's grammatically correct versus just understanding by listening. i've been pretty good at comprehension due to the sheer amount of animes i've watched over the years and decades but i've never practiced sounding them out aloud which is tough for me in the beginning but i'd imagine as i learn more it will become easier.

it's interesting learning a new language is actually making me learn more auxillaries around the english language. i'm learning more terms to describe the structure of language i didn't really know before or i thought i knew about but actually was wrong.

i actually thought about when i first came to the US and had to learn english. i remember my dad coming home from work to drill me on 10 new vocabularies per day. i don't recall the exact process for me to pick up english though. i know i went to school and being in an environment where the default language is the one you're learning certain forces you to learn at an accelerated pace. my parents told me that it took me over 9 months to become comfortable enough where the school let me join the normal class instead of ESL.

i definitely feel the impatience from my mind on my inability to pick up japanese faster. i know how much i don't know and there is great attraction to shortcuts as the mind likes that. this is only the first week too. i'm definitely make great progress.

one thing about me is once i have the mind set on something then i will focus on that to accomplish whatever that goal is. my guru, paramhansa yogananda, said that once you have set on something it's important to carry it out through because it enforces one's will to power it through. if one gives up more and more, then one is basically weakening one's will. he also said: "the greater the will; the greater flow of energy. and the greater flow of the energy; the greater the magnetism". we are all just vibrating tuning forks resonating to the frequencies around us. it's up to us to attune to the higher frequencies.

speaking of magnetism, my parents have been supportive of my move and they even told their friends and families about my decision. they know a few people living in tokyo for a while. it seems like one of them is my uncle's good friend that actually provides a service catered to chinese immigrating to japan with business manager visa. i thought that i was pretty coincidental but i know there is no such thing as a coincidence.

since i'm being divinely guided by the universe, i just need to do my part and have faith everything else will be taken care of by the universe.

on a side note, i really like the `ゆ` character in hiragana. in romanji it is pronounced as `yu` which is part of my given name in chinese. and in chinese one of the meaning is fish and if you look at the character in hiragana it looks exactly like a fish. it was one of those character i instantly remember because of the character itself looks like a picture. i actually thought about maybe having my alias name in japanese as that.
