this week started out what some might considered ominous.

on monday morning when i was heading out early in the morning to the gym but it seemed like my car was sometimes making these clunking noises. i had already scheduled a tire rebalance appointment at discount tires that day but this sound didn't sound good.

i pulled into a mcdonald parking lot to check my tires. i then realized what the real issue was. it was a complete flat tire on the front passenger side. i knew it was dangerous to keep driving so i went home to get it sorted.

i tried to see if i can pump my tire with some temporary air before waiting for the appointment. it was to no avail. i even tried the fluid which you pump into the tire to get it temporarily sealed since the previous owner had left an unused package in the trunk. that didn't work either. the automatic pump i got from walmart just wasn't pump air into that tire. since the car doesn't come with a spare, i had to risk it and drive slowly to the discount tire which thankfully was close by.

at the store, they inspected it and it seemed like there was a large gash in the inner part of the tire and there was no way to patch it. in addition, another rear tire was almost to that condition as well so i need to replace that one too which i did. i realized how lucky i am because a blown tire is a good way to get into a car accident so the way it happened was lucky for me.

i realized how the necessity of having a set of tires that work is the most fundamental part of a car. you can take out a lot of things out of the car but you still need the tires to move. i also realized the nature of entropy. everything degrades over time hence why we need to do the upkeep for everything we own like houses and cars. there are not that many things that are built for a lifetime especially nowadays where we switch out things quite frequently to the point it's almost like we are renting instead of owning.

this is one of the main reason i don't like to own many things because i know the energy one needs to spend on maintaining which one owns could be more than the initial price tag. this is especially true when one purchases things that cost more which in a sense stores more energy. we start to get attached to them where some of our mental energy becomes fixated on what would happen it them. let's say you bought a higher end car and someone scratched it. one would definitely feel some kind of energy going on within which is correctly correlated from the scratch. at some price point though, one would care less or not at all.

anyways, i had to wait until they ship the tires from the warehouse so i took a lyft back home and waited while studying japanese.

by the end of the week, i realize this event had even transpired this week. i feel like because i wasn't placing that much importance on it it had such a little impact on me that i felt time was distorted in a way that i felt this had happened a while back. it was quite a strange experience.

this week i started reading a book called transurfing from a recommendation from a friend that i met in tokyo. it was an interesting read as it has the similar vibe to spiritual teachings. the more i read it, the more i felt it was kind of like that book or documentary called the secret which was a hit over a decade ago but now it seems like it has gone away. the secret was in essential thinking positively to attract good things. it didn't really go much in depth of why it works but this book actually explains it.

another book i had read a while back was called the science of creating miracles by dr. larry farwell. it goes into the quantum mechanics of some of what was talked like the super attractor state and superposition and the collapse of wave function into a specific point. the mantra is "anything is possible". it's just improbable. like jesus turning water into wine. it's not that it's impossible - it's just statistically improbable like 0.000000001% chance and yet jesus was able to tune into that miniscule percentage and bring it down to the physical realm.

in transurfing, it talked about the physical and the metaphysical realm. what we perceive in the world through the five senses are what we call the physical realm or reality. the metaphysical is the unseen realm which is only accessible by intuition and clairvoyance. we essentially just need to have faith that it's there.

the author posed a beautiful analogy of going up to a mirror. one goes up to a mirror yet one does not see the reflection. it's only after a certain period of time, which is an illusion, does that person now see the reflection. now one moves his arm yet the reflection doesn't show the movement. only after a certain period of time does the reflection move. and so on.

the point of it was that when we put out that intention which is an non-attached action of what we set out to do, in a sense in the metaphysical realm it has already happened because time is an illusion. it's only a matter of time before the physical realm catches up to that. the problem is when we start to doubt the universe of whether is will happen or not. then that becomes a desire because we now have an expectation of what should happen. we just need to have faith everything will work out as it will.

i remember rewatching steve job's commencemnt speech at stanford a few months ago. the first key point he talked about was that which is we can't connect the points forward only backwards. so we need to just trust that everything will workout as we move through the world and only by reflection can we see how the journey really progressed.

there is also the zen parable of the chinese farmer whom kept responding to "maybe" anytime something "good" or "bad" that happens to him through a serie of life's events he witnessed.

the book also talked about the concept of a pendulum which is essentially the social systems, ideology, identities. we've been conditioned from childhood to see the world in a certain way and it's hard to get out of that conditioning. and we swing one way and then swing to the other way but both side of the extremes cause us suffering because we are still part of the same instrument. the only way is to be still and walk the middle path so the dial doesn't swing anymore. that's walking your own path and trusting your own inner voice.

the pull of the pendulum is very strong so we always need to be aware of that pull. one of the saying i love from yogananda is:

>the environment is greater than your will

so pick your environment wisely and choose one that elevates your vibration of energy than lowering it.

toward the end of the week, i saw [a post on hackernews](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=44907531) about learning japanese kanji. the author had a weird experience where he learned kanji a while back and hasn't really used japanese in a while yet he was able to recall with perfect recollection the majority of the kanjis he had learned. but the crazy thing was he doesn't remember how to write any of them - only reading them. i saw in the comments someone mentioned there is a term for that which is "word pro dummie" - someone who can read and type but cannot write since everything is now done on computers. another person mentioned the book remembering the kanji by james heisig. this got me curious so i gone ahead and downloaded the book.

the author had an interesting experience when he tried to learn japanese while in japan. he did it a completely different way because he felt that the chinese students had a quicker learning of japanese than other foreigners. he believed he was due to their understanding of the kanji since they are derived from chinese hanzi. this insight made him go all in on learning the kanji first without the other parts. it took him only 2 months to learn the core 2000 kanjis which is pretty impressive.

he created the system of mnemnoics by combining various primatives to form a kanji. a primative is the simplest element or building block for constructing a character. a primative is a kanji and a meaning too. the meaning could change when combined to form another kanji. for example, 口 is a primative and means mouth. by combining them together to form 唱 which means chant there are three mouths and two of them has a tongue with a slit in the middle of the mouth while one without it. there is something easy about conjuering that image which makes it hard to forget. another one is 日 which means the sun and 目 which means the eye to combine them together to form 冒 which looks like an eye looking up at the sun which we all got warning from our mom not to do because we risk blinding our eyes. and that is the meaning - risk.

i like the idea of primatives as the foundational building blocks to construct more complex kanji. it fits in with the programming paradigm as well where the string, integer, float, boolean are the primatives to build an entire complex codebase.

this is more in align with my own personal background too because i actually know most of the primatives because they have been so ingrained into me when i was a kid learning chinese that even after all these years i never forgot them.

of course, this method doesn't work for everyone as i read comments from others this method didn't work for them. i feel this is great for me though. so i'm going to drop the wanikani once i finish level 3 and go in all on this book. it actually ties in great with my weekly calligraphy since i can practice writing them too and recall what each kanji means. the issue is i won't know how to pronounce any of them though because that's what the author's intention is. he did mention actually write each kanji down for practice and to actually learn the stroke order which is actually important. so i was mindful about that when i was writing them.

i met up with a friend who was with me during the randonautica adventure to catch up since we haven't seen each other since the spiritual renewal week at ananda. i brought up the transurfing book and told him about what we project into reality becomes true in a way as we cocreate reality. there is the word paranoia which means one feels the world is conspiring against them which when one keeps thinking that it will become truer with each thing that reenforces that belief. i read an article a while back where the author coined a term called pronoia where one feels the world is conspiring for them. like everything happening to them is for their own good which is a great attitude to have because in a way it becomes that person's reality and it would reenforces that belief ever tighter with each confirmation.

another thing we discussed which i was always in the back of my mind from a while back was to start a pilgrimage service. because he and another friend runs a business together to teach and guide students through spiritual teachings and intuitive readings, they have a large group of clients who might be into this. they had actually done something with [one yoga global](https://www.oneyogaglobal.com/) where they provide the locations around the world for yoga teachers to bring their students to these places and do a yoga retreat there. a part of it is teaching while the other part is play and go on tours in the world.

i thought that was a clever business model since the marketing is done through the teachers to their students which has more trust element to it. what they offer is basically the logistics. i wanted to this for pilgrimages.

there is a famous pilgrimage route here in japan called shikoku where the route has 88 temples. it does take like a month to do but i figure i can make it into a 10-day pilgrimage by providing the logistics like setting up the hotel accommodations, getting a van to take everyone's luggage from hotel to hotel, planning the meals, getting a tour guide to explain more about each temple.

the spiritual teachers bring their own students to this while i provide the container to host them. it would be up to the teachers to do whatever they want but i'd imagine some kind of walk, talk, and meditate along the way while we walk the pilgrimage route.

this wouldn't be a typical kind of vacation but rather an inner exploration for each soul to get to their dharma and core issues each person is working through in life. it is actually deep work. what better way to do it than in a gorgeous foreign environment like japan. some of the hotels provide onsens too which is a great way to recuperate after a physically and mentally exhausting day.

craig mod actually done this with his friend and documented the whole pilgrimage which they turned it into a website called [walkkumano](https://walkkumano.com/koyabound/). then he worked with a local japanese book maker to turn it into a hardbound book with only a 1000 of them printed. i thought about doing this too but just for each pilgrim. i feel it's a great souvenir for the experience captured into something physical. also i want to do a website like this too where the route is walked while one scrolls the website along with the story by text and photos. i actually found someone made a guide on [animated map path for interactive storytelling](https://tympanus.net/codrops/2015/12/16/animated-map-path-for-interactive-storytelling/).

my friends are rather excited about this and so am i. i feel quite drawn to this and there is quite a bit of energy for me there to do this. i feel like the perfect person to do this since i live in the liminal space between both cultures. i feel like there is something uniquely beautiful about this whole thing. i do see a trend where people are opting out of the digital realm more and more and into the physical or analog world more. this trend will continue to accelerate with ai because soon you won't be able to know whether the person you are chatting with is an ai bot or not. plus people are getting tired of the everything digital which is a real thing about the harmfulness of dating apps. people are quite exhausted. what's more human than doing a pilgrimage together in a foreign land.

i was so excited by this idea that i went home and bought the domain: pilgrimae.com - it's a play on word with pilgrimage and mae (前) which means before or in front. that could the main page for what it is and then have shikoku.pilgrimae.com to have a more detailed itenary of what it entails.

i also had bought pilgrima.ge and pilgrimag.es domains too. the pilgrima.ge could be that interactive pilgrimage route with the storetelling and the pilgrimag.es could be sharing of all the pilgrimages done.

i also had bought the domain walktalkmeditate.com and walktalkmeditate.org which was when i wanted to start this move of walking, talking, and meditating. it was inspired by kevin kelly's walk and talk idea. i wanted to make it an open-source thing where i can set the template and people can plan out their own route and do their own pilgrimage of sorts. from this i feel like i can still make it like that because the pilgrimage service would be a premium service while the walktalkmeditate is the open-source guide to build your own pilgrimage with a group of people.

as i chatted more with my friend, he brought up that he feels there is a need for people more and more now and in the future to do pilgrimages. i wholeheartedly agree. he even created a digital pilgrimage toolkit for each individual to do their own unique pilgrimage no matter where.
