maybe it's a weird timing thing again but it seems like the japanese government is trying to make the business manager visa stricter due to all the chinese taking advantage of it.

the current requirement is only around $30K USD as the minimum to start the business in the checking account but now it seems like they're proposing it to at least 6x that. i guess too many chinese are using that route to move to japan. they're trying to escape china in a way too that's why there is currently a $50K USD per person transfer money out of china. it is strictly imposed by the chinese government in order to prevent capital flight albeit the rich have their ways to get around it and also quite of bit of people already moved out of china when they were hearing something like the capital flight control.

now japan is getting too many foreigners coming in so in order to prevent that they are making it a stricter requirement. it would still target the well-off individuals but it will also curtail quite a bit of people too.

i just heard of this from something my dad had sent me. his friend in tokyo had sent that to him too. his friend's suggestion is for me to start the process this year because they could institute it next year. i still have no idea if they will let the people who had fulfilled the old requirement and hit them with this new requirement or not. they might just grandfather the people who had already moved or maybe they would institute it during the visa renewal. everything is still up in the air and since the government moves slow i don't think they would do this on a month time scale more so than yearly.

another thing my dad's friend told him was that it seems like the japanese government is now being more vigilant about looking a chinese companies that offer the visa services to chinese customers because they have exploiting different loopholes so more eyes are on them now. it's actually a bad idea now to use chinese companies that offer the visa services now no matter how cheap it is because one wouldn't want to attract that kind of attention since it would be on the record.

it is also dependent on one's passport too. apparently a friend of my cousin who has a chinese passport has been going through the process for 2 years while a friend of mine who has a us passport who said the process only took about 6 weeks for him by him outsourcing it to a japanese company that specializes in this.

it is interesting the timing though. it reminded me of sri yukteswar told yogananda that all doors were open for him when he was about to embark to the west. maybe this is a way the universe is nudging at me as well.

i did start calligraphy on sunday and it felt nice writing those characters. i was just copying what vocabulary i had learned throughout the week from bunpro. i feel i had a better remembrance from writing down with brush than writing it down on supernote with a pen. there is something about the brush strokes that made me more mindful and intentional about each stroke.

i plan to burn these papers today during a full moon. it's a nice ritual.

i stopped reading the children's books and just strictly focus on wanikani, bunpro and imabi. what i learned from imabi is interesting. it goes way into details about the little things that one might not need to know about rather fascinating to learn.

one of the thing i learned from it was the difference between aru (ある) and iru (いる). both of them means the existence of or there is/are but the difference is whether the noun in context of is an animate (iru) or inanimate (aru) object. the animate object includes human beings and animals while the inanimate object includes food and nature. what's interesting is i'd think something like a tree would be an animate object but it is actually considered an inanimate object. another nuance is something like a fish could be both whether describing the live fish swimming or a dead fish that's considered food.

after some introductory lessons imabi asked the learner to download a chrome extension called [rikaikun](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/rikaikun/jipdnfibhldikgcjhfnomkfpcebammhp) which when one hovers over a kanji will you how you pronounce it in hiragana. i thought that's pretty cool since i don't know many kanji right now but know quite a bit of words if i can properly sound it out. this is actually clutch.

something else i'm learning is i know a bit of the radicals which are the building blocks for each kanji character. those radicals are actually from chinese and i know some elementary ones. it's just the pronounciations are different. once you know all the radicals then theortically you can kind of guess what the kanji roughly means.

in japanese, there are two different words to describe the same thing. one is called ON-reading and the other one is called KUN-reading. all the ON-reading words are carried over from chinese which sort of sounds like the chinese way of pronounciating it. all the KUN-reading words are developed solely from the japanese language itself. the interesting part is figuring out which reading to use in the context of a sentence. there are some rough guidelines but it seems like the best way is just go along with what others use and how you keep hearing the way a sentence is structured to know which reading to use. i know i'd get confused too when i'm taking the quiz on wanikani.

this week i also downloaded two apps - [renshuu](https://www.renshuu.org/) and [wagotabi](https://www.wagotabi.com/). both of them are gamified learning. renshuu is completely free while wagotabi is a premium game which is like a retro rpg in a learning environment. i like the gamified aspect. i think i got inspired by this when i was in the sauna at my gym and i saw this dude who was playing some kind of language game. i asked perplexity which are the best games for japanese learning and both of these were recommended.

i had another thought when i was shitting on the toilet when i noticed a small bug crawling around on the tile near me. i thought it doesn't know much about the world in general beyond the extent of this bathroom. it's like this for humans too i feel. we think we know everything yet in the scope of things we are like that bug just knowing about our immediate environment.

yogananda once said human's size is perfectly in the middle of everything between the smallest thing like subatomic particles to the largest like stars millions or even billions times bigger than earth. i wonder if our understanding is like that too. like the average human is perfectly in the middle of consciousness level.

what does that mean when ai becomes way smarter than us that we are akin to pets to them. how will we live. it's coming at us fast too - faster than most people imagine what's capable. openai released chatgpt 5 this week. it didn't seem that much of a better upgrade compare to 4. it seems like their current focus is targeting developers and coders. now chatgpt is default each chat to use version 5 and let it figure out which model is best suited for each question. quite a number of people were pissed at this as some people liked model 4o a lot and it seems like they're deprecating it completely unless you use their api.

i sometimes wonder if i'm spending my time right. the pace of which the speed of growth of ai is crazy. one cannot even keep up even if they're in the field. how can one even keep up if they have other priorities in life like family and work. i'm currently spending majority of time studying japanese and i know the payoff isn't that great compared to learning how to work with ai but at the same time i feel like if the future mainly used with ai then why does it matter to spend time to learn it now since it will be smarter and smarter with exponential rate growth. 

the thing with language is even if there is live translation there will still be latency issue because the translation will need to be near instant but it still require for the other person to finish speaking. i guess this is where direct perception comes in by beaming one's intention directly to another's mind. that's the best way to communicate in a sense. it's the default way to communicate in the treta yuga cycle which is one of the higher ages compared to our current age of dwapara yuga cycle. plus it's not even about the words spoken more than the non-body language involved or what's not spoken. and japanese culture is all about the context - the signal behind the signal.

yesterday i was setting up the dinosaurus library for jivx which is an open-source readme doc from facebook. it only took a bit of time along with some debugging to get it setup. i even got the logo up and running too which i feel is important. there is still the default template on the page but i did remove the footer and the original home page and have it set direct to the doc page itself.

it's nice to be able to get into a flow state like that. i didn't realize it was that late when i finished as it was about to be dinner time. i spent some more time after dinner to do the logo and favicon.

the page is currently live at: https://jp.jivx.com - it still has the default templated stuff. i haven't had the time to clean them off yet but it will serve as the guide to rooting in japan.

a idea came to me a few days ago about maybe building an ai agent that goes out to gather what is relevant for this guide and slowly make changes via commits and pull requests on github. i will just review them before merging it in. this could be done almost on a schedule. it would be cool to build a coding agent like that as a project.
