it's been nice to focus on one specific thing.

now when people ask me what i do instead of the characteristic job title, i just say i'm going hard on learning japanese since that's exactly what most of my time is spent.

my weekly routine has quickly come together which revolves around learning japanese as the primary goal and the secondary goal is having a healthy body and mind which are done with swimming, yoga, calisthetics, and meditation. my life is pretty stress-free which gives me the healthy mind-space to be receptive for learning. i'm definitely grateful for that.

i can't imagine for someone learning japanese as a side job and how long that would take to get to fluency. i guess our mind just wants to see the fast progress and we'd surprised to see how much we can do by consistent effort through a long period of time. this is how people with jobs and even with a family is able to create a side business from the little spare time they have. the parkinson's law applies here to how we manage our time we all share everyday. by having a purpose, i feel like i'm able to pull away from the endless distractions we all face like video games, social media and other entertainment. i don't watch that much anime now which ironically would actually help me with japanese.

everyone is different in how they work and even manage time. that's why i recommend learning more about yourself through jyotish, bazi and human design readings to get how you are wired and work with that instead of fighting against your nature. for me scheduled time doesn't vibe well with me. i like to keep my schedule free and just build routines based on what resonates with me and my current goals since it's easy for me to build habits as well as the discipline to keep at them. for others i can see that would be hard and that they need to plan out their days in scheduled time blocks on their calendar.

since i've gotten back, when i drive i started re-listening to The Surrender Experiment by Michael Singer which was the book that got me onto the spiritual path to eventually becoming a disciple of Paramhansa Yogananda. when he was going through a period of his life where he felt a bit lost, out of the blue, someone asked him if he had been to mexico. then in a bookstore, he practically tripped over a book about mexico. and finally at the gas station he was at someone had left a map of mexico at his pump. 3 signs from the universe were enough for him to take a trip down to mexico.

he didn't know what he was going to find there but he went anyways. on one of his last days there, when he was doing his yoga postures outside on a beautiful hill he noticed there were people outside where he was. his mind became frantic thinking they were bandidos he was warned about yet he kept his practice and not letting his mind break him out of that space. when he finally came out of it, there were two ranch hands waiting next to him on their horses. they offered him on their horse to take him back to his van. again, his mind thought they could rob him but he accepted the offer nevertheless. they invited him to their home before he leaves mexico.

on the way back, he did stop by where they lived. they lived in a mud huts with thatched roofs which he only learned from books. all the villagers never seen an american before so they were all amazed and curious. the ranch hands greeted him and later even let him gallop across and open field on one of their horses which was one of his dreams which somehow was fulfilled in the middle of nowhere in mexico. they were very poor and the landowners didn't even let them fish on their land. he gave them all of his rice that he had carried with him in his van and they were so thankful it almost brought him to tears.

that unexpectedly rich experience birthed the seed for what he later called the surrender experiment. all of the things that happened to him weren't done by him but were done to him and he would've missed them if he had listened to his mind.

this greatly resonated with me as i realized how much i had listened to what my mind told me and later on it turned out to be completely untrue. i'm sure this happens to everyone yet somehow we continuely to trust our mind. we literally have a better chance with just flipping a coin and go base on that - at least there is a 50/50 chance it would be right. our mind has a horrible track record yet somehow it is able to deceive long enough to make us forget its fallibility.

something i realized as i'm getting deeper into japanese is how connected japanese is to both chinese and english. the kanas and the kanjis were mostly copied from chinese so they all shared that similarity - just the pronounications are somewhat different. and for a lot of words that aren't native to japan, it uses katakana to sound out the counterpart in other languages mostly in english. i can see why chatgpt suggested that i would be in the liminal space between the two cultures. it's also that because i'm well aware of both culture's difference in thinking and behavior that gives me that sense of feeling too. when i was in japan, i did felt sometimes i was conforming to the environment of the space and that sometimes i'd have the urge to break out from that as a way to keep my own individuality in tact. one of my favorite saying of yogananda is: "the environment is greater than your will". so i have to mindful of how the environment is affecting me. this is also why chatgpt told me that japan would be a place to refine me.

everyday i've been doing the kana quiz game i had discovered last week. since the start of this week, i've been doing every combination of the hiragana and katakana and all the variations of them with diacritics and diagraphs - all in all 214 of them. i had pretty bad accuracy and time in the beginning but by the end of the week i had gotten it down to around 7 minutes with over 90% accuracy. it's still a bit higher than i'd like but i think it's good enough. i will continue to get my practice by reading throughout my learnings.

the funny thing about the quiz game is the moment my mind shifted from just playing it as practice or having fun to trying to be competitive to get a "high score" i would start to make silly mistakes more often which compounds as i do progressly worse. it was the mind shifted out of the present moment and having the attention split between trying to recognize the kana and at the same time listening to the voice in the mind that made me do worse. i was constantly noticing this throughout multiple times playing this game. it was actually quite interesting to see what the mind would do with just a silly game like this.

it reminds of the parable of an archer is able to shoot perfect bullseye everytime when there is no prize. yet when a small prize is introduced he started to miss as he felt the bullseye became smaller. and when the prize is huge, he can't even see the bullseye anymore.

a corollary story to this is a story about a master archer looking find the best archer in the world so he can learn from him. he kept hearing there is archer that always shoot bullseye from everytime he shoots. he travelled far and wide to go find him until he came upon this village where he had heard where this archer lived. when he walked around he did noticed quite a few targets with bullseyes on them and sure enough all of them had an arrow dead on the bullseye. he got excited to find this archer as he seemed to be close. then a few minutes later, she saw a little girl who was shooting from a bow and noticed that after she shot the arrow, she would go to where the arrow and and paint a target around the arrow. this puzzled the archer so he went up to ask her what she was doing. she said she was practicing archery. he asked her if all of the arrows and targets on the trees were from her. she said yes. this confused the archer even more as he asked her why. she replied by "well everytime i shoot the arrow, i like to paint my target around it to say i had hit my shot."

i can definitely relate to having expectation especially when there is an expected reward for what i do, this drastically lowers my performance. why can't we just do something for the sake of the doing itself without any external reward nor expectation?

i upgraded my children's book reading to 2-3 year old age now. i can see the sentences are definitely longer in those readings as well as now they introduce a random kanji here and there. i'm still slowly learning the rudimentary kanjis from wanikani as well as bunpro. they're definitely helpful with their spaced repeatition.

i also started using anki decks. i downloaded a few decks from [ankiweb](https://ankiweb.net/shared/decks?search=japanese) and mostly i've been doing the listening comprehension. the core 2000 kanji deck is still a bit too advanced for me to keep up along with other tools. i will pick that up once i have a more solid fundamental.

from the bunpro's lessons, i've started to write down the kanji words down on my SuperNote. there is a nice feeling about writing down the words stroke by stroke. the order of the strokes come naturally to me because i feel like the kid in me still remembered when he learned it when in elementary school. even though i had completely forgot almost of all the chinese characters, somehow my hand is still able to recall the order of the strokes. i'm grateful about that.

i finally got the calligraphy set in the mail along with some papers to write on this week. i will start on sunday to practice that brush strokes from calligraphy. i have no idea what i'm going to write but i think it will just naturally come. maybe i will just write the words i have learned through the week.

the idea came to me one night about creating a song based on each substack post. in a way this is a way for me to produce. i feel like throughout the week it's mainly me consuming stuff and writing and creating is a way for me to produce. i feel like every post i have can include some kind of spiritual teaching in it or at least talk about from my experience to relate to the teachings. those would become the seed to germinate in a song.

i think the idea was born from reading "Go On Alone" book swami kriyananda had wrote about his own experience after he had been kicked out from SRF. he seemed a bit lost in the beginning and doors were closed to him. the only door opened was for him to be talks and produce songs. what's interesting is the melody of songs came easily to him as if he's just transcribing what he's hearing from the divine. he didn't have any format training for music at all yet he's able to create them. of ourse later on, he took lessons from teachers for guitar, singing and composing but they only enhanced what he was able to do from the beginning.

from my own thesis about the integration of ai in the future, i came up with the term orchurator which is a combination of orchestrator and a curator. i think in the future it's more about what your taste is. rick rubin embodies this as he just brought out what he liked and evidently that resonates with a bunch of other people too. i think that's basically curation. it's about curating what you like, what your taste is and having the confidence to let the world know. the other part is orchestration which is now possible with ai agents or just ai tools. with some many ai tools for image, sound, and video generation one can take artistic endeavor to a whole new level that wasn't possible before. at least for me i have only basic understanding for those things yet if you tell me to masterfully produce any of them by themselves i don't think i will be able to without tedious amount of time which would make me give up from the beginning. and now it's completely possible to do all of them at once with only a minimal amount of playing in order to get them to what you want them to produce. and from that point on it's all about curation to see what resonates with you and combine them.
